Handling Bigger Incidents
Module 3 Review
Module 3
Practice Quiz: Code that crashes
Practice Quiz: Code that crashes

 1
Which of the following will let code run until a certain line of code is executed?

Breakpoints

Watchpoints

Backtrace

Pointers

Correct
Way to go! Breakpoints let code run until a certain line of code is executed.


 2
Which of the following is NOT likely to cause a segmentation fault?



Wild pointers


Reading past the end of an array


Stack overflow


RAM replacement

Correct
Right on! Segmentation fault is not commonly caused by a new RAM card in the system.

3.
A common error worth keeping in mind happens often when iterating through arrays or other collections, and is often fixed by changing the less than or equal sign in our for loop to be a strictly less than sign. What is this common error known as?



Segmentation fault


backtrace


The No such file or directory error


Off-by-one error

Correct
Nice work! The Off-by-one bug, often abbreviated as OB1, frequently happens in computer programming when an iterative process iterates one time too many or too little.

4.
A very common method of debugging is to add print statements to our code that display information, such as contents of variables, custom error statements, or return values of functions. What is this type of debugging called?



Backtracking


Log review


Printf debugging


Assertion debugging

Correct
Excellent! Printf debugging originated in name with using the printf() command in C++ to display debug information, and the name stuck. This type of debugging is useful in all languages.

5.
When a process crashes, the operating system may generate a file containing information about the state of the process in memory to help the developer debug the program later. What are these files called?



Log files


Core files


Metadata file


Cache file

Correct
Right on! Core files (or core dump files) record an image and status of a running process, and can be used to determine the cause of a crash.

6.
You are a software developer who has been asked to write a program for a banking company. Your manager suggests you use assert statements in your code. What is the purpose of using assert statements in code?



To determine the code’s runtime


To translate the code to a different language


To catch issues and debug your code during development


To rewrite code that produces errors

Correct
That’s right! An assert statement is beneficial to developers as it helps determine if bugs are in your code and where they are located.

7.
 7
How does the print statement help programmers debug codes?



 It produces the output of the code.


 It fixes the errors of the code.


 It prints the details of the code.


It recommends the correct code.

Correct
Correct. The print statement sends messages or prints out the values to the output screen. If the code has errors, the command will produce the error statement as output.

8.
 8
Visual Studio Code or VS Code, popular among programmers, utilizes breakpoints. What is a breakpoint?



 An open-source product from Microsoft


 A debugging technique 


 An integrated developer environment (IDE)


 A location where the code error occurs 

Correct
Correct. A breakpoint is a debugging technique where you set a stopping point on a specific line of code.

9. Imagine that you’re working on a new feature for a web application. As you're writing the code, you realize that certain sections might produce runtime errors. Which Python mechanism allows you to handle runtime errors without crashing the program? 



Print debugging


Assert statements


Try and except blocks


If-else conditions

Correct
That’s right! The try and except blocks in Python are specifically designed to catch and handle exceptions (runtime errors). Code that might produce an error is placed inside a try block. If an error occurs, instead of crashing the program, the code inside the except block is executed.

10.
You’re a web developer for an e-commerce website, and you're noticing an increase in unexpected behaviors and errors as the site’s user base grows. Why might you choose to implement the Python logging module in your e-commerce website over traditional print() statements?



The logging module can only display messages on the console, similar to the print() function.


The logging module allows categorization of log messages based on their severity, such as DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR, and CRITICAL.


The logging module can only capture error messages.


The logging module requires a third-party library to be installed.

Correct
That’s right! One of the key features of the logging module is its ability to categorize log messages based on severity levels. This helps in filtering and prioritizing issues, making it easier to diagnose and address problems.

11.
A team of software developers is excited to use an AI tool to help with writing and debugging some pieces of their code. Which of the following is true about using AI tools with code?



AI tools can provide answers to your s in seconds.


The answers provided by AI tools are always correct.


The AI tools have been used by developers for decades.


The AI tools have been through many development iterations and are considered as perfect tools.

Correct
That’s right! AI tools can provide you with feedback to your  in a matter of seconds.

